# Basic Station Feature Roadmap

## Medium-term outlook

- **Station-internal health report**
	Gateway health reporting is generally not viewed as core functionality of Basic Station. Therefore, it is expected that health and status reports are generated by tools and scripts running on the Gateway base system. Basic Station provides means to submit these reports via a UNIX named pipe to the LNS. In the future, Station will provide a way to generate internal health reports reflecting core metrics of internal components of Basic Station. The reports should be able to be sent periodically, triggered by an on-gateway process and queried by the LNS.

- **Response to router_config message**
	The router_config message contains all the LNS-side configuration for the gateway, in particular the channel plan. Currently, no response to this message is sent by Station. In case of failure, the connection is closed. In the future, Station should respond to the router_config message, proving details in case the configuration could not be applied.

## Long-term outlook

- **Built-in AES key derivation for V2 gateways**
	On V2 gateways the fine timestamps are encrypted with a chip-specific key. Semtech is moving away from this scheme. In the future, the encryption key will be derived by Basic Station directly and only decrypted fine timestamps are used.

- **NACK messages for failed TX**
	Currently, the Basic Station protocol provides acknowledgements (`dntxed` message) for transmitted downlinks, giving the network server a guarantee that scheduled downlink message was put on air. In cases where the transmission could not be guaranteed, no notification is sent to the server. In the future, the Basic Station will provide feedback for dropped frame indicating the reason.

- **Protobuf message encoding**
	Currently, the Basic Station Protocol uses JSON encoding for the messages exchanged over Websockets. In situations where backhaul connection bandwidth is scarce a more efficient encoding is desirable. First tests have shown that using "Protocol Buffers" encoding can reduce the message size of the most common messages by up to 70%.

- **Low-level PHY control option**
	The Basic Station Protocol operates on LoRaWAN semantics, which allows LoRaWAN network server to abstract away all PHY layer control. In some situations, LoRaWAN network servers may want to have more fine-grained control over the PHY in order to support proprietary messages for example. It needs to be explored how the Basic Station protocol can provide the choice for lower-level control transparently while not forcing deep PHY knowledge on all protocol users.

- **Forwarding of non-LoRaWAN messages to separate on-gateway process**
	Currently, Basic Station drops non-LoRaWAN messages. In cases where LoRaWAN solutions are augmented with proprietary messages, it may be beneficial to allow processing these messages locally on the gateway. To facilitate on-gateway processing, Basic Station will have an option to forward non-LoRaWAN messages to a gateway-local destination.
